What happens when you type google.com in your browser and press Enter

0. What happens when... 
This question is a classic and still widely used interview question for many types of software engineering position. It is used to assess a candidate’s general knowledge of how the web stack works on top of the internet. One important guideline to begin answering this question is that you should ask your interviewer whether they would like you to focus in on one specific area of the workflow. For a front-end position they may want you to talk at length about how the DOM is rendering. For an SRE position they may want you to go into the load balancing mechanism.
This question is a good test of whether you understand DNS. Many software engineering candidates struggle with this concept, so if you do well on this question, you are already way ahead of the curve. If you take this project seriously and write an excellent article, it may be something that will grab the attention of future employers.
Write a blog post explaining what happens when you type https://www.google.com in your browser and press Enter.
Requirements, your post must cover:
•	DNS request
•	TCP/IP
•	Firewall
•	HTTPS/SSL
•	Load-balancer
•	Web server
•	Application server
•	Database
1.	INTRODUCTION: These days, in the era of digital technology AI and the likes of chatGPT, internet plays a vital role for almost everything. We study, research, use social media to stay in touch with friends and family, play online games, makes downloads  with players from across the world, listen to music or even download it, watch videos via you tube, tick tok etc. Exchange presentations with coworkers, conduct business meetings via video conferencing services with zoom, google meet, webx and so much more.
Many people have are still in awe about how we are in almost anywhere and talk to that brother or sister or mother as if there are across another fence or a block away yet the distance is so far away in another continent of the globe yet we are right in the comfort of our homes with just one click away from our device, ever since the internet became accessible to everyone. For many, the answer to that question has remained a secret for many years. Some people thought in their minds and never asked or say it out. Have you ever pounder in your mind how is this possible?  I want to delve a little deeper into what occurs when you enter any URL (Uniform Resource Locatorin your web browser. A webpage is just a text file with specific formatting applied so that it can be read by your browser, such as Chrome, Firefox, Safari, etc. This formatting is known as HyperText Markup Language (HTML). The first thing here is, your Browser creates HTTP GET request and sends to Google. You want to ask wat is this HTTP?  HTTP stands for (Hyper Text Transfer Protocol). The work of HTTP is Copy article link What is HTTPS? Hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, which is the primary protocol used to send data between a web browser and a website. HTTPS is encrypted in order to increase security of data transfer.
2.	What information does HTTPS protect? HTTPS encrypts nearly all information sent between a client and a web service. For example, an unencrypted HTTP request reveals not just the body of the request, but the full URL, query string, and various HTTP headers about the client and request: An encrypted HTTPS request protects most things:WWW is about communication between web clients and servers is also about Communication between client computers and web servers. (DNS) is the phonebook of the Internet. We Humans access information online through domain names, like nytimes.com or espn.com. Web browsers interact through Internet Protocol (IP) addresses.
 DNS translates domain names to IP addresses so browsers can load Internet resources to give you the responds according to your request. “A firewall on the other hand is a system that provides network security by filtering incoming and outgoing network traffic based on a set of user-defined rules. In general, the purpose of a firewall is to reduce or eliminate the occurrence of unwanted network communications while allowing all legitimate communication to flow freely”.
This is done by sending HTTP Requests and receiving HTTP Responses World Wide Web (WWW) Communication. The World Wide Web is about communication between web clients and web servers. Browser checks if the IP is already connected to Google and opens connection if not. Browser sends request, requesting for data using OS call. Socket and data pointer and data length and flags are formatted into a structure. A load balancer acts as the "traffic agent of road safety " on the internet, sitting in front of your servers and controlling the access path that client requests across all servers capable of fulfilling those requests in a manner that maximizes speed and capacity utilization and ensures that no one server is overworked, which could degrade performance”.
 Web server sent back responds after successfully locating the request. NOTE: When an application is accessed, the client request is sent to the web server. Upon the reception of each request, the requirement is to fetch the data from the database management system working at the backend. To do that, the web server sends the request to the application server residing in the middle layer in form of data via packages in the same means. Your Browser displace your request back to you with pictures and video etc
